# Fama | An all in one transparent platform to ease Agric-business

What does Fama do?

Fama is an all in one digital platform for farmer/farm management team to track inventory, list produce before harvest, get access to funding, and get assisted by AI in optimizing workflow.
Buyers have access to fresh produce and trace produce source 
Investors get involved in agricultural business, track funding and get reports on high ROI produce generated by AI thereby contributing to social and business value

Why does it matter?

According to research, the Agric Industry management and advisory tools available to farmers are scattered and this may cause frustration to the low to middle level of digital literate farmers trying to adopt those products. Over 25% of harvested products are lost due to lack of storage facilities, small scale farmers are cheated by middlemen due to inadequate knowledge and tools for tracking price and cost and lack of access to funding and advisory, this altogether causing reduction in farm output has led to food shortages across Africa.
At the same time buyers and investors seek transparent and trustworthy platforms to be able to participate in social and business value.

Who are the Users?

Buyer (Individual/Organisation)  Food listed in supermarkets are stale and their sources are unknown.A platform  where I can easily log on and order for fruits and food crops in small or large quantities with a supported logistics system. Value traceability and trust.
Seller(Farm Management Team/ Farmer): Food wastage due to lack of storage facilities, unfair pricing by middle men, lack of adequate knowledge on how to access funding. An easily accessible platform that can help me track my inventory, sell my food crop before harvesting and easily get access to funding 
Investors: can't practice agriculture but have the money to be invested, a transparent platform that can show me how my money is moving and increasing across invested farms.

What are the key Features?

E - Commerce Layer: listing, buying and selling 
AI Agents Layer: assist with profile summary and sight, price tracking, advisory, weather forecast, pest and disease management 
Finance Layer: source funding through crowd funding, insurance, loan and government initiative, fund tracking and management 
Farm Profile Layer:  inventory tracking and farm calendar, about, size, GPS enabled location and local language setting

Technologies
